.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/unexpected-behaviors.md, before:

---
name: Unexpected behaviors
about: Report unexpected output or bugs
title: Please read & provide the following
labels: ''
assignees: ''

---

Your issue may already be reported!
Please **search** the issues before creating one!

## Current Behavior
<!--- If describing a bug, tell us what happens instead of the expected behavior -->
<!--- If suggesting a change/improvement, explain the difference from current behavior -->

## How to Reproduce
<!--- Provide a link to a video, or an unambiguous set of steps to -->
<!--- reproduce this bug. Include code to reproduce, if relevant -->

## Describe what you want to do
1. What inputs you will provide, if any:
2. What outputs you are expecting:

## Your Environment
<!--- Include as many relevant details about the environment you experienced the bug in -->
* Desktop
  * Operating System and version:
  * Used the docker image?
* NVIDIA Jetson
  *  Nano/TX2/Xavier NX/Xavier AGX?
  * Jetpack version:
  * Ran install_jetson.sh?
  * Reinstalled OpenCV from Jetpack?

## Common issues
1. GStreamer warnings are normal
2. TensorRT plugin and engine files have to be built on the target platform you plan to run

Commit message:

Include questions in issue template

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/unexpected-behaviors.md, after:

---
name: Unexpected behaviors
about: Report unexpected output, bugs, or ask questions
title: Please read & provide the following
labels: ''
assignees: ''

---

Your issue may already be reported!
Please **search** the issues before creating one.

## Current Behavior
<!--- If describing a bug, tell us what happens instead of the expected behavior -->
<!--- If suggesting a change/improvement, explain the difference from current behavior -->

## How to Reproduce
<!--- Provide a link to a video, or an unambiguous set of steps to -->
<!--- reproduce this bug. Include code or configuration (mot.json) changes, if relevant -->

## Describe what you want to do
1. What inputs you will provide, if any:
2. What outputs you are expecting:
3. Ask your questions here, if any:

## Your Environment
<!--- Include as many relevant details about the environment you experienced the bug in -->
* Desktop
  * Operating System and version:
  * Used the docker image?
* NVIDIA Jetson
  *  Nano/TX2/Xavier NX/Xavier AGX?
  * Jetpack version:
  * Ran install_jetson.sh?
  * Reinstalled OpenCV from Jetpack?

## Common issues
1. GStreamer warnings are normal
2. TensorRT plugin and engine files have to be built on the target platform you plan to run
3. Questions unrelated to FastMOT will not be answered
